# Datasets generated during this study and related to microbiome, methylome.

## Methylome analysis (MeDIP-Seq)
Scripts only for MeDIP-Seq analyses described in the paper "The vertical transfer of maternal immune cells promotes neonatal immunity against viral infections".

### METHODS
MeDIP (Methylation Dependent ImmunoPrecipitation) was performed as recently published, enriched methylated DNA regions were identified by short read sequencing. Briefly, HSC were sorted from bone marrow of 10-11 week old MMc+ and MMclow offspring, following the gating strategy depicted in Fig. S4.Genomic DNA was extracted from 1.5x105 HSC upon resuspending the cells in 300 μl lysis buffer (7,5% NaHCO3) by phenol-chloroform extraction and EtOH precipitation. Isolated genomic DNA was fragmented by sonification (Bioruptor, Diagenode, 25 cycles (30s on, 30s off) to an average fragment size of 50–100 bp. For quality control, 0.025 ng DNA from in  vitro methylated pCR2.1 plasmid were added to each sample as a spike-in control. DNA was denatured at 98°C for 10 min and cooled on ice for 10 min. From each sample, 1/10 of the total amount was used an input control. For MeDIP pull-down 5 μg of a 5-mc-specific antibody (Diagenode) were added to the rest of the sample and rotated for 2h at 4°C. Subsequently, 50 μl M-280 anti-mouse IgG Dynabeads were added and the complexes were incubated on a rotation wheel for 2h at 4°C. The following steps were performed in parallel with the input samples. RNA digestion was performed at 37°C for 30 min using 1.3 μl RNAse A (20-40 mg/ml) prior to elution and protein digestion at 55°C for 30 min using 200 μl elution buffer (50mM Tris-HCl, 10 mM EDTA and 1 % SDS), 4 μl proteinase K (40 mg/ml) and 7 μl CaCl2 (300 mM). DNA was extracted using phenol-chloroform extraction and EtOH precipitation as described above. MeDIP compatible next generation sequencing libraries were generated using 5 ng DNA and the DNA SMART ChIP-Seq  Kit  (TaKaRa,  Clontech)  suitable  for  single  stranded  DNA.  MeDIP  libraries  were  sequenced  on  a  NextSeq  500 system (Illumina) using single read (1x75) flow cells and 30 million reads per MeDIP sample and 10 million reads per Input control. After  quality  control  of  MeDIP-seq  data  which  is  performed  using  FASTQC,  reads  were  aligned  to  the  MM10 genome using  BWA, resulting in BAM files. The alignment files were analyzed using the IGV software. For the detection of differentially methylated regions (DMRs) and gene ontology  analyses, the tool diffreps was utilized. Default parameters were used except for the adaption of the window size to 800 nt. The genes with significantly DMRs (P value < 0.0001) were filtered and analyzed in IGV.


## Microbiome analysis
Analysis of the gut microbiome of Rag2-/-γc-/-171 and  wild-type  mothers  and  their  respective  MMc+  and  MMclow  offspring

Since  the  composition  of  the  maternal  microbiome  can influence offspring’s microbiome and innate immune development, we analyzed the gut microbiome of Rag2-/-γc-/- and wild-type mothers and their  respective  MMc+  and  MMclow  offspring. Using  full-length  16S rRNA  amplicon sequencing,  differences  of  intestinal  microbiota  composition  were  observed  between  Rag2-/-γc-/-  and  wild-type mothers,  as  expected  from  published  data.  However,  no  significant  differences  of  the  microbiome  were  present between  neonatal  MMc+  and  MMclow  offspring  (Fig.  S3g-i).  Since  the  significant  differences  of  gut  microbiota between adult and neonatal mice of the respective groups may camouflage differences within the F1 subgroups in this analysis,  we  also  assessed  the  PCA  restricted  to  the  F1  samples  and  could  confirm  that  the  gut  microbiota  did  not significantly  differ  between  the  two  offspring  groups  (Fig.  2h). 

### RESULTS
(Fig.  2c).  Similar  to  the  wild  type  model,  MMc  and  subsets  were  identified  upon  MACS-based  enrichment  in  the  163 MMc+ / MMclow model. Prior  to  further  assessments  of  MMc-related  effects  on  HSC  and  offspring’s  immunity  in  MMc+  and  MMclow165 offspring,  we  excluded  potential  confounders  that  may  affect  the  designated  read  out  parameters.  
Here,  we  did  not observe  significant  differences  affecting  the  reproductive  outcome  and  fetal  development  between  the  mating  167 combinations  leading  to  MMc+  and  MMclow  offspring,  including  gestational  weight  gain,  plug  to  pregnancy  rate,  168 maternal  gestational  cytokine  levels  (TNF-α,  IFN-γ,  MCP-1,  IL-6),  number  of  fetal  implantations,  fetal  weight  and  169 loss  rate  or  placental  features  (Fig.  2d-g;  S3a-f).  
Moreover,  since  the  composition  of  the  maternal  microbiome  can influence offspring’s microbiome and innate immune development, we analyzed the gut microbiome of Rag2-/-γc-/- and wild-type mothers and their  respective  MMc+  and  MMclow  offspring. Using  full-length  16S  rRNA  amplicon sequencing,  differences  of  intestinal  microbiota  composition  were  observed  between  Rag2-/-γc-/-  and  wild-type mothers,  as  expected  from  published  data.  However,  no  significant  differences  of  the  microbiome  were  present between  neonatal  MMc+  and  MMclow  offspring  (Fig.  S3g-i).  Since  the  significant  differences  of  gut  microbiota between adult and neonatal mice of the respective groups may camouflage differences within the F1 subgroups in this analysis,  we  also  assessed  the  PCA  restricted  to  the  F1  samples  and  could  confirm  that  the  gut  microbiota  did  not significantly  differ  between  the  two  offspring  groups  (Fig.  2h).  
Also,  a  parental-specific  inheritance  of  gene expression patterns could be ruled out, since expression of Rag2 and γc did not differ between cells isolated from fetal bone  marrow  of  MMc+  and  MMclow  offspring,  while  expression  in  both,  MMc+  and  MMclow  offspring,  was significantly  reduced  compared  to  wild  type  offspring,  as  expected  (Fig.  S3j-l).  Lastly,  we  did  not  observe morphological  differences  of  the  hematopoietic  niches  of  the  bone  marrow  between  MMc+  and  MMclow offspring at E18.5 (Fig. S3m).  

### METHODS
V3–V4  region  16S  rRNA  amplicons  were  generated  using  degenerate  primers  that  contain  the  Illumina  adapter consensus sequence F: (5’TCGTCGGCAGCGTCAGATGTGT ATAAGAGACA-GCCTACGGGNGGCWGCAG-3’) and  R:  (5’GTCTCGTGGGCTCGGAG  ATGTGTATAAGAGACAGGACTACHVGGGTATCTAATCC-3`)81,82.  A detailed  description  of  the  protocol  has  been  published  online  by  Illumina:  ‘16S  Metagenomic  Sequencing  Library Preparation:  Preparing  16S  Ribosomal  RNA  Gene  Amplicons  for  the  Illumina  MiSeq  System’.  Samples  were multiplexed  using  the  Illumina  Nextera  XT  Index  Kit  to  construct  barcoded  libraries.  Subsequent  libraries  were multiplexed  and  sequenced  by  500PE  sequencing  on  the  MiSeq  platform.  FastQC  (Babraham  Bioinformatics, Babraham  Institute,  UK)  was  used  to  determine  the  average  quality  scores  of  each  sample  before  and  after  paired reads. The paired ends in each sample were joined, and all sequences less than 250 bp and/or with a Phred score <33 were discarded. Quality filtering was applied using QIIME 53 (at Phred ≥ Q20). We performed operational taxonomic unit (OTU) clustering and alpha- and beta-diversity analysis using QIIME version 1.7 83. A chimera filter was applied using  USEARCH  8.1.  All  sequences  were  clustered  based  on  97%  similarity  to  reference  sequences. The reads that did not meet the 97% similarity criteria were clustered de novo. Taxonomy levels of representative sequences in the OTU table were assigned at 95% similarity based on the SILVA database. We calculated alpha diversity based on the Shannon  diversity  index.  Analysis  of  beta  diversity  statistics  (analysis  of  similarities,  ANOSIM)  was  performed  to determine if differences between the distributions of microbiota profiles from the five datasets were significant. 


